# arxivprep

Script that prepares tarball of tex document in current directory tree for arXiv submission, stripping any tex comments.

## Usage

    $ arxivprep [TEXNAME[.tex]]

Run `arxivprep` in the top-level directory containing the tex document.

If a TeX typesetter is available, `arxivprep` attempts to determine document dependencies automatically by examining the list of input and output files generated by the `-recorder` option of modern versions of latex (and `pdflatex`, `xelatex`, `lualatex`, etc).

If `TEXNAME` if specified it is used as the main document when determining document dependencies. If omitted, document dependencies are determined from the first `.tex` file (in alphanumeric order) in the current directory. 

If a suitable TeX typesetter is not installed, `arxivprep` will include any `.tex`, `.bbl`, `.sty`, `.cls`, `.pdf`, `.jp(e)g`, and `.png` files in subtree relative to `TEXNAME` (or the current directory if `TEXNAME` is omitted).

The behavior of the script can be modified by setting the value of environment variables the script recognizes, e.g. 

    $ TEXFILES=paper.tex arxivprep

`arxivprep` respects the following environment variables:

- `TYPESETTER`  TeX typesetter used for automatic document dependency detection.
                Must support -recorder option. Defaults to pdflatex. 

- `LATEXFLAGS`  Additional command line flags passed to `TYPESETTER`.

- `OUTFILE`     Pathname of output tarball to be created.

- `TMPDIR`      Pathname to directory where to place temporary files. 

- `AUXDIR`      Pathname to directory used to store auxiliary files generated
                during document dependency detection. Setting this environment
                variable will cause auxiliary files to be left in the specified
                directory.

- `TARDIR`      Pathname to directory used to store processed files included in
                tarball. Setting this environment variable will cause processed
                files to be left in the specified directory.

- `STRIPTEXCOMMENT` Commandline used to invoke striptexcomments script.

The following environment variables can be used to override automatically
detected document dependencies.

- `INPUTS`      List of files to include in tarball.

- `TEXFILES`    Tex files (`.tex`) to strip from comments and include in tarball.

- `BBLFILES`    Bibliography (`.bbl`) files to include in tarball.

- `PKGFILES`    Tex class and style files (`.cls` and `.sty`) to include in tarball.

- `FIGFILES`    Figure files to include in tarball (default: `.pdf`, `.jp(e)g`, `.png`)

## Dependencies

Requires Python and [ply.lex][1]:

    $ pip install ply

## Acknowledgments

`striptexcomments` based on [`strip_comments.py` script by Adam Merberger][2]

`strip_comments.py` modifications that preserve comments in `\makeatletter` and `\makeatother` blocks by [dzhuan][3]

## License

    Copyright 2019 Thomas Nyman <thomas.nyman@iki.fi>

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

[1]: http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/index.html "PLY (Python Lex-Yacc)"
[2]: https://gist.github.com/amerberg/a273ca1e579ab573b499 "Github: amerberg/strip_comments.py"
[3]: https://gist.github.com/dzhuang/dc34cdd7efa43e5ecc1dc981cc906c85 "Github: dzhuan/strip_comments.py"

